hey my needle drops Anthony Fanta no
here Internet's busiest music nerd let's
chill let's be chill let's chill it out
let's be chilly willy chill waves with
this new album from monopoly monopoly is
a California producer and this new LP
the title is Paramatma Paramatma this is
his debut album and the sky is a part of
the growing collective of artists on the
record label brainfeeder which is kind
of a side project an offshoot thing for
Flying Lotus but if you want to look up
this album Paramatma it's out now on the
record label tasteful licks like a lot
of artists on the Brainfeeder label like
the gaslamp killer Roz G Daedalus
monopoly makes beat music with a lot of
diverse influences in the case of
Paramatma it's not only hip-hop but also
electro dubstep ambient music there are
a lot of sounds flowing throughout the
hour in 10 minutes that this album spans
and to be completely honest I was kind
of worried at first I thought I was
really in for a bumpy ride on this LP
because it just started off with a bunch
of tracks that I did not care for the
starting tracks pull from a lot of
dubstep lots of crunchy break beats just
rumbling bass squawking glitching
buzzing some of the beats are really
repetitive but I was loving the sounds
that monopoly was pulling together just
high quality sounds and great production
it wasn't the most immaculate thing that
I heard but it got the job done but my
listening experience kept getting
interrupted by all of these vocal
samples not just over the track but sort
of vocal intros to the song and tacked
on to the end of the song and they were
samples taken from political
conversations philosophical discussions
Bates I really didn't know whether or
not monopoly was trying to get me to
listen to his music or vote for somebody
and I was getting really afraid that
this album might just thanks but this
thing really makes a surprising shift
before the halfway point at this spot
monopoly just basically says okay you
know a screw dubstep screw vocal samples
I'm totally just going to explore the
idea of chili abstract hip hop beats
with lots of cool since why am I doing
this basically he says I'm going to
produce the most off-kilter hip hop
beats that you've heard since Flying
Lotus released Los Angeles some
sputtering beats a lot of low-end a lot
of atmospheric synthesizers and some
moments flirt with ambient music too
with no beats whatsoever with lots of
our peji ating since just floating in
the air sort of like you can grab them
sort of like looking at dust just
floating in front of your eyes it's very
relaxing even the parts with beats the
second half of this album really does
thrive off of a chill chill infectiously
chill atmosphere the beats are all going
what what whoa that's like that except
talented I guess what it boils down to
is monopoly wears several different
suits on this LP and some of them fit
and some of them don't for me and it's
kind of led to a disjointed debut album
I can't say it amazed at this point he's
kind of sounding like a mini flying
lotus to me but he's clearly got good
taste he's got good production chops and
with those two things alone and
diligence this guy could quite possibly
hammer out a very distinctive sound that
we're all going to be wowing at so if
you like your beat music electronic
slightly ambient and hip-hop influenced
then this is where you want to be I
think people who appreciated flying
lotuses Kozma gramma the exploratory
nature
of that album earlier this year can also
get into this dig on this thing I'm
feeling a strong six to a light seven on
this LP but if you guys heard it and you
can because there are some links in the
D box where you can do so let me know
what you think of this thing do you love
it do you heat it and why Anthony
Fantino monopoly para mama forever
you